java c ELECTRONIC, ELECTRICAL AND SYSTEMS ENGINEERING MSc Coursework Software and Systems 2024-2025 Design and Implementation of a Pac-Man Style Computer Game (GUI) Aims and Objectives You are required to design and implement object-oriented software for the game Pac-Man. This is a small group piece of coursework (maximum 3 group members) which contributes 60% of the total mark for the Software and Systems module. You are expected to submit the following: • Design Report - the report accounts for 50% of the coursework mark and is assessed as a group • Python program - the program accounts for 50% of the coursework mark o 25% will be assessed on your individual contribution to the code o 25% will be assessed as a group on the GUI design, integration and overall functionality of your application Tasks Using the object-oriented approach, design and implement the game Pac-Man as a Python application – details of the game play and required functionality are below.

As a group design the application using UML diagrams to formalize your design
 Once      your      design      has      been      completed      programming      tasks      should      be   assigned to individual members of your group to   complete
o Each class should include in the code comments who the author is o Continue to discuss with your other group members to limit complications with the integration 3. As a group integrate the different components of your game into a single application (Note: make sure you allow plenty of time for this!) 4. Provide the prototype of your application to your testers o You will be assigned testers for your game from other groups 5. Play the games you have been provided to test and give your feedback o Timelines for providing your game and feedback will be provided 6. As a group consider your feedback and any changes that could be made to your design and implementation to address any issues raised o Your response to the feedback should be included in your report Keep a record of your group meeting notes these will be required for your report Game Requirements Your game will be a simplified version of the game pac-man and will be played as a single player game. The objective of the game is for the player to collect all of the dots within the time limit without running into a ghost.

 Game   Setup
Your playing area must consist of a maze such as the one shown in Figure 1. Figure 1: Example Maze Image courtesy:https://pacman.fandom.com/wiki/Pac-Man_Maze?file=Originalpacmaze.png You are free to design your own maze but the maze must have: • Internal walls that result in at least 30 corners • Enough space for (see Figure 2): o 1 x pac-man o 3 x ghosts o At least 240 x dots (the exact number will depend on your maze) • 1 pair of gaps in the outside wall where it is possible to exit from one side of the maze and renter on the other Each location in the maze should contain only 1 item either pac-man, ghost or dot • The Pac-man should always start at the same location in the maze • Ghosts should be positioned on the maze in randomly assigned locations o Note ghosts are not required to move • Any location which does not contain pac-man or a ghost should contain a dot Figure 2: Example pac-man, ghost and dots Images courtesy:https://pacman.fandom.com/wiki/Pac-Man_(game)?file=Pac8bit.png https://pacman.fandom.com/wiki/Pac-Man_(game)?file=Blinky8bit.png https://pacman.fandom.com/wiki/Pac-Dot?file=Pac-Dot_Arcade.png 2. Gameplay The player must move the pac-man icon around the maze to collect as many dots as possible within a given time limit • The player should not be able to move the pac-man through the walls • The dots should be removed from the maze once the pac-man moves onto the same location as them • At a pre-defined time after the start of the game 2 pieces of fruit (Figure 3) should appear in random locations in the maze (not occupied by the Pac-man or the ghosts) and as with the dots should be removed once the pac-man moves over them. • The game should end when one of the following occurs: o The pac-man moves onto the same location as one of the ghosts o The decided upon time limit is reached o The user has collected all dots and fruit The game should keep track of how many points the player has earned: • Each dot should be worth 10 points • Each fruit should be worth 100 points • The total points should be displayed at the end of the game Figure 2: Example fruit Image courtesy:https://pacman.fandom.com/wiki/Pac-Man_(game) 3. GUI The application should be able to create a GUI containing all widgets required to run the game smoothly. The application should have the following functionality:

Allows the player to start the game which will start the timer
 Displays the maze   with the locations of   the   dots,   ghosts   and starting position   of   the   pac-man
 The player should be able to use specified keys to   move   the pac-man   up,   down, left,   right
A代 写Design and Implementation of a Pac-Man Style Computer Game 2024-2025Python 代做程序编程语言fter the decided amount of time displays the fruit on the maze
After the one of the end game conditions is reached the game should conclude
  Displays the players score and asks the   user to   quit or   play another   game.After creating your GUI with all the above   widgets,   you   will   then   have   to   bind   these   to   the functions to get your application working.   You   will   need   to   handle   any   exceptions   that may arise   during   its   use.
AssessmentThe design report and python code (.py file) must be submitted via canvas as two separate files in one go. Click on the + Add Another File link to add another ‘Choose File’ button while submitting your assignment. Only one member of the group needs to submit the files.

Design Report At the start of your report there must be a statement on the use of generative AI as follows: We have used generative AI tools such as ChatGPT (or any equivalent alternative) in the preparation of the submission. (Yes/No) You can find the University’s guidelines on the use of generative AI here: https://intranet.birmingham.ac.uk/student/libraries/asc/student-guidance-gai.aspx • The report must contain the relevant UML diagrams produced to design this game • The report must fully address all relevant issues • The assignment is open-ended but it is important that all diagrams of the design process are considered to a reasonable level of detail • The report should include a record of the group meeting notes as an appendix • The report should include the feedback from the testers as an appendix • If generative AI tools were used the report should include an appendix with the following: o A reference to the generative AI system used o The prompts provided to the generative AI o The responses obtained o Details of how the output was changed by yourself Note without this you risk breaching academic integrity (see below) • The figures, tables and pages should be numbered. Captions should be beneath figures and above tables. • The report should not exceed 10 pages (not including appendices). • The report must be submitted via canvas as one single pdf file.
This assignment involves the development of designs on paper. It should be possible to draw good quality design diagrams using Word or other word processing package, adopting the correct notation. There is no need to use any Object-Oriented Design Tools. This is because the learning curve associated with object-oriented design tools is normally steep. Many design consultants use graphical design programs and not object-oriented design tools to document designs. Tools that you might find useful are Visio (might require licence), Modelio, draw.io and ArgoUML. The report will be first assessed on English language proficiency which will be assessed as follows: • Pass and above: o The work is written / spoken to an acceptable standard of English o Spelling, punctuation, vocabulary, sentence construction, and textual coherence is of an acceptable standard. • Fail: (zero marks) o Poor standard of written / spoken English, making it difficult to understand the points being made. o Weaknesses of writing / speaking are so frequent or serious that they impede communication. The mark distribution will be as follows: a) Introduction, which includes the discussion and interpretation of the specification, and should identify any issues that require clarification. (3 marks) b) Use-Case Diagram, Use-Case description and CRC cards. (15 marks) c) Detailed class diagram with all attributes, methods, their visibilities, arguments, return types and relationships to define architecture. (6 marks) d) Detailed interaction diagrams, both collaboration and sequence diagram. (10 marks) e) Detailed state machine (chart) diagram to show events, actions and qualifiers. (6 marks) f) Discussion of non-functional and usability requirements. (5 marks) g) Discussion of feedback from your testers and any constraints limiting you to implement part(s) of your design (5 marks) 2. Python Program:This should be the implementation of your design for the game. The classes, methods and attributes created during the design process should be used in implementation.The marks will divided between an individual component based on the code you have written and a group mark on how well your game is integrated and functions The individual mark distribution will be as follows: a) The quality of programming – appropriate design of the code, use of classes, methods, attributes, reusability of code, etc. (20 marks) b) Well documented code. (5 marks) The group mark distribution will be as follows: c) Game Functionality. (15 marks) d) GUI design – note the design of the GUI should have been agreed upon as a group even if the code is implemented by one individual member of the group. (10 marks)

   加QQ codinghelp Email: cscholary@gmail.com
